# WorkoutTracker
With the workout Tracker app i created a server.js file that connects to the port which is 8080. It also calls the npm packages of express, mongose, and morgan. It also connects the mongo database, and requires the html, and api routes files so we can connect to the web app, and it can function properly. After that we use app.listen, to intiate connection to the web app. The next file created was the index.js file, which just exports the workoutModel.js file, which i created next. In the workoutModel.js file i call the mongoose npm package, then create a workoutschema to create a day function, with the exercises array in the mongoose format. In the array i have the type, weight, name, duration, reps, distance, and sets of the workout that the user inputs into the app. After the array i created the Exercise variable that equals mongoose.model("workout", workoutSchema). Then i used modules.exports. To export the Exercise variable. Next i created the workoutSeed.js, which has the same exercises arrays as the seed.js file, but unlike the seed.js file i create the mongoose variable, which requires mongoose, and i didn't create the db variable which requires the models folder. I just used the let workoutSeed array, and the insertMany function to insert the document the many files of the app. Finally i created the routes folder which holds the html-routes, and api-routes files. In the api-routes file i created the variable const db = require("../models/workoutModel) to connect the workoutModel.js file in the models to folder to the api-routes file, and i created the const router variable which uses the express npm package, and then i used the router element to use the get, post, create, and put functions. In the router.get function i used the db.aggregate function with the elements $addFields, timeDuration, and $sum so the user can get the total duration their workout will be, once they put in the what workout they plan they to do, and for how long they want to do it. After that i use a .then function to callback the workout element. The next function i created was the router.post function, and a db.create function with an curly brackets, inside a parathesis. The open curly brackets represent the workout that the user inputs, which the db.create function ultimately creates, and then i used a .then fuction to callback the workout element. Next I router.put function db.findByIdAndUpdate with req.params.id, {$push: {exercises: req.body}},
 {new: true, runValidators: true}. To find the document which is being updated and install the new updates accordingly. After that i used .then function as a callback for the workout element. Finally in the api-routes.js file i use modules.export to export the router element. The final page i created was the html-routes.js file. In the html-routes.js file i created the const path = require("path"); variable, then i used module.exports with the app parameter inside parathesis. I then use the app.get("/exercise" ..., to connect and update the exercise.html file in the public folder, with the sendFile function inside.
